that's what I mean it seems to be this
thing of like trying to glamorize
something that's not glamorous yeah
because that's all that that's what
they've got to work with because there
is nothing glamorous in the first place
about being in Chiang Mai the less let's
get back because the question asked you
was to look at the ideal you had yeah
versity reality so cuz again look when
you say you thought it was a tropical
paradise I don't really know what that
means to you you know means everything's
different people so how was your idea of
tropical paradise different from what
you what you actually encounter well
yeah when I got here that was like man
like my partner can account for this
like the first few days I was like in
shock I'm like what what have I got
myself not to be fair this was Bangkok
but I'm like that's funny that's funny
cuz you're more honest with her than you
are with me we have a lot of honest
conversation really I was terrible I was
like having a mental breakdown it was it
was so I was like you would not want to
be around me for those two days but it
was like okay I was a Bangkok that was a
more like established shitty what does
chiang mai going to be like oh so yeah I
guess like that the tropical paradise is
like I said it was like the the amazing
fruit that everyone's here like the
fruit is just like ten out of ten here
and looks like the the luxurious with
the weather like I thought okay sunny
weather what could go wrong with that
you know and just like like I say just
like living this this just like holiday
life where it's just like you just sit
around and seemingly do nothing all day
not so luxurious when you actually get
here and realized it actually is really
not much to do all day right yeah yeah
it's weird so I just say you know
something I I think I've said I haven't
said it on YouTube but you know I I
could understand if you want to have a
fruit festival vigan festival in Egypt
you can see the pyramids you can visit
the pyramids in Egypt if you want to
have a fruit festival in Auschwitz
Poland you can visit the concentration
camp no stress like there are places in
the world where there's a major
attraction that either has historical
value or artistic value there's some
obvious reason to be there but for me
part of what's weird is like today I was
talking we're going to go to the muse
today and now for me because I have a
certain kind of background I'm problem
you know we're probably going to talk
about i'm probably gonna make it more
fun for Jake because i'm inside boredom
along yeah we're going to say oh this is
interesting for this reason or something
have some connection to the history and
what have you but if you don't have that
connection you know that there's nothing
here that's equivalent to the pyramids
there's there's no like in a sense there
is no tourist attraction and I mean in
terms of activities I I can't let see a
family now I hate that don't you have of
exploiting animals I'm over hot yeah
that's true as time went on it was like
what am I going to be doing for 21 days
in Chiang Mai like it is this all that
there really is just like eating fruit
riding up a mountain and but but then
what I'm like I start to think about
those vlogs at itm Mike what happens in
between they do the same thing every
yeah ah it's weird I mean you know look
I mean the fruit here is okay okay
that's what i watch ponyo do it I mean
little like you don't like your thinking
gonna say exact same thing yeah the
fruit here is okay look but it's just
some people then move here for the fruit
and I'm just like you gave up everything
you had in your countries except for the
fruit well look no keep it look so when
people say because you will hear the
Senate that there are tons of like
charming cafes here or char bars or
nightclubs that's true but if you're a
vegan who doesn't drink alcohol ninety
percent of what you see like walking in
the street means nothing to you yeah
like I'm not saying Chiang Mai is such a
terrible place I'm just saying I have
lived in and visited other cities in
Asia but also even with in Thailand that
I think would be so much better for a
vacation for a living long term of
whether you're a business person or what
have you and and I don't Better Place's
riding a bicycle because of the long
distance cycling anyway so look we took
your story up to the difference between
be ideal and the shock so what came
after the shock like cuz I mean I you're
on to a new phase that you're no longer
shocked like most of them you walked
most of the city now yeah
you've seen I mean that's what we're
doing honestly for the most part just
like just walking around yeah sure and
it's it's kind of a third-world channel
know if I'm gonna be honest and not try
paint this picture like it's something
that it isn't then yeah good i got to
put words in your mouth yeah but yeah I
think a lot of people are quite afraid
to actually you say it for what it is
yeah and and that's what I wasn't
expecting because I had never seen that
aspect of chiang mai anh like videos
people had painted this picture where
it's like this luxuries paradise you
come to you have a carefree holiday and
it looks like you walk around it's like
all I want to do is go back home
honestly because I had intended to stay
here for 21 days of my partner for like
the entire duration of the festival but
we're going to actually be traveling
alcohol chiang mai to places like chiang
rai and then we actually going to be
hitting to Singapore because they're
really okay didn't oh yeah but like that
this was just like recently organised
just to see Singapore instead of well it
was like what what am I going to be
doing here for 21 days yeah and you know
I just say so I have a background as a
scholar of Buddhism but when people ask
me for advice and what to see here I do
say to them honestly like if you're not
a specialist if you've been to three
different Buddhist temples they all
start to look the same like for a normal
person if you don't have a highly
specialized in jerz like I had and
because there's a scholar in that field
I can't recommend you spend your time
like going to visit every Buddhist
temple and you know if you're not a
geologist I think all the mountains look
the same like you can you can see a
mountain and you can go back the next
day but you know that's that's I have
trouble giving people positive advice of
the valley I'll just sell to do Angie I
was talking to my partner it's like if I
if I hadn't met ISIL here oh I'm the
main tourist dress no no this is like no
I know it's funny cuz im a girl asked a
question you know like how's your trip
going in Thailand and have you had have
you had any authentic vegan food like
thai vegan food yeah and it was like I
mean I've been too simple I haven't been
to many places but like the only
authentic Thai vegan food was when you
took me to a place that seemingly no one
else goes right yeah because it's a
place that's not for
because that's what I mean it's like
yesterday I was walking home with my
partner Nadine after the karaoke night
that I met up with ISIL and a bunch of
other vegans yeah so no kidding five
seconds later after i mentioned rats
three rats like pop out from like the
sewers like these little holes and like
as you walk down the I guess the partial
sidewalk that's actually there's not
that's what the holes are full yeah yeah
they make special holes in the sidewalk
that are big enough for rats and
cockroaches to breed them in low and
come back up it's basically like a rat
habitat faucet project you know it's
perfect yes yeah do go on no I like I
said increasing the biodiversity of this
beautiful city the holes in the car
something something i'll actually
comment on later but yeah as I was
saying no kidding like five seconds
later we walk past in these three rats
pop out and Nadine just like jumps and
sushi she's actually sitting in the back
now listen to this and he's like curling
up in the corner just thinking about
this and then that that was just like
and then of course like the cockroaches
that are just like always walking around
and it was like I I have seen I have
seen a cockroach eating the blood of a
dead rat you know Rattata brick but yeah
that the cockroach game is on point the
rat the rat game is on point and I mean
all we ever hear on the internet is that
this place is paradise you know you hear
these things from him you're like really
and then a few days later you're like oh
well he was right my god but whether
whether your walk and we've drawn a
bicycle the scenery moves more quickly I
guess it doesn't feel as hot you get a
bit more of a breeze but god damn it's
ugly walking past the 7-elevens just the
the rotting broken-down buildings one
after another I had people on my
facebook were saying to me like I had
just a photo of me doing something
they're like they couldn't believe the
incredibly ugly power lines in just the
sense that everything is rotting not to
mention it's infested with rats and so
on it's like it's like even if you go to
my apartments look out the window you've
got buildings that are like half being
taken down and half being yeah and they
just they just in this right this snake
of like nothing's ever going to happen
to them they're just sitting there as
they are yeah well that's okay so that
touches on another interesting thing
which is the Chiang Mai I think when I
was here 10 years ago there was optimism
for its future and there was a
of new investments including and tourism
and now when I walked four cities your
made the empty buildings I see empty
buildings of every kind like I see at
the office buildings empty houses some
abandoned like halfway through
construction but some complete and the
business out of business has gone but
especially in tourism like obviously
chores and hit a peak at somewhere in
the past and then declined but you know
nightclubs hotels tourist-oriented
buildings and tours range restaurants
there are tons of them that are
abandoned even in the wealthiest parts
of the city in the most durable and in
the downtown core the downtown core is
really kind of rotting and in floating
you know well I sir I don't want to seem
like I'm beating you up Jake no no it's
so many this is exactly ality if you
hear there seems to be this thing of
like trying to glamorize something
that's not glamorous yeah because that's
all that that's what they've got to work
with because there is nothing glamorous
in the first place about being in Chiang
Mai and I it's sad that so many people
aren't willing to talk about what they
really see or if they even really see it
it was just right well looking because
like you can't miss it like walking down
the sidewalk you can't miss just like
the rubble and the you trash just
literal rubble yeah like not kidding
it's just like it's like it's like
they've started constructing the
sidewalk they've got to finish it
they've got all the mess left them there
just like well let's just leave it there
right so look for this video we're not
going to get into it but I said we've
talked about it's okay I feel like on a
larger scale the fact that Thailand's
democracy has collapsed you know the
failure of government here the fact that
this is now a military dictatorship I
feel this is related to bad government
as you see it in these things that in a
sense you know the fact that the
government is failing to manage the
sidewalks and I'm just obvious things in
this and the you know the rain rain
water reflects the fact that currently
you know there is no Prime Minister
there is no Constitution there are no
civil rights that this country was taken
over as military tissue so and that's
happened repeatedly in the last 10 years
they've had long periods of this so you
know some level of mismanagement or
worse than it would be management to
those public public problems is is
perhaps inevitable yeah it's interesting
because I remember watching one of your
videos and you are really up
saved by the fact that no one is willing
to talk about this no one that seems
like like I can and I remember kind of
you know kind of sympathizing with you
and me like oh yeah I kind of understand
where he's like but when you actually
get here and you witness just how bad it
is and you see all these people just
walk around just not talking about it's
like how can you not yeah to even admit
it to yourself like that this isn't the
place that you're portraying it to be is
it's sad it really is even wrap it up it
partly is the Instagram effect yeah just
changing a moment to your life that are
the most beautiful or what have you but
I think there's there are many other
kinds of self-deception going on and
ultimately I mean I think the the cost
is a loss of potential I just want to
say some people misrepresent what I say
about the vegans and shame I is if I
think you're all idiots I don't I think
you could be doing something better with
your time I think you have the potential
to something better even with in
Thailand or even with in Chiang Mai you
know that's why I talked about social
engagements why I think you should be
concerned about the government about
politics about these problems if I
thought you you were Complete Idiot's I
wouldn't care i'd say well and you know
look think about how you guys if you
guys are watching this the young the
young people who think your hip and cool
here in Chiang Mai how do you guys feel
about the retired guys who over 70 years
old to sit here you don't look to them
to save the world you don't look to them
to make the world a better place Nick
well he's 75 years old he's just retired
and drinks beer in a bar somewhere um
well I can't look at you that way you
know I really am looking I'm looking to
members of my own generation and Jake's
generation Jake is a few years younger
than me obviously I'm looking for us to
take responsibility to shoulder that
burden to make Thailand a better place
to make chain my better place if you
choose to live in Chiang Mai and whether
it's through veganism ecology other
forms of activism organization to be
concerned and and not just to live a
life that revolves around fresh fruit
bikinis and bicycles and again if you
did have a job here or you were doing
humanitarian work something that engages
you with the society that could be
rewarding that could plug you into the
reality of Chiang Mai but if you don't
you know whether you're here as a
so-called digital
no mad or on vacation you know I think
what's meaningful here you know the
struggle you know that what life is like
for real people join mine you have you
have no connection with either